src/services/INVARIANTS.md, before:

### CART-001: Cart Items Must Validate Product Existence

**Definition:**
Before adding or updating a cart item, the system must validate that the referenced product exists in the InventoryItem collection. 


**When to Apply:**
- ✅ `ShoppingCart.addItem()` - validate before storing
- ✅ Cart save operations - validate all items before persisting
- ✅ Cart update operations - validate all items before persisting

**Rationale:**
Prevents a number of issues that will arise as the system scales and its complexity increases. 

---

## After: With Validation (30 seconds)


### Pre-Save Hook (Defensive Layer)

**New or Updated:** `src/models/ShoppingCart.ts` (or wherever cart schema lives)

```typescript
// ✅ DATABASE-LEVEL VALIDATION

const cartSchema = new Schema({
  userId: String,
  items: [{
    itemId: String,
    quantity: Number,
    name: String,
    price: Number
  }]
});

// Validate on save
cartSchema.pre('save', async function(next) {
  // ✅ Validate all items reference existing products
  for (const item of this.items || []) {
    const exists = await InventoryItemModel.exists({ id: item.itemId });
    if (!exists) {
      throw new Error(`Product ${item.itemId} was deleted`);
    }
  }
  next();
});

// Validate on update
cartSchema.pre('updateOne', async function(next) {
  // ✅ Validate all items on update too
  const data = this.getUpdate();
  if (data.$set?.items) {
    for (const item of data.$set.items) {
      const exists = await InventoryItemModel.exists({ id: item.itemId });
      if (!exists) {
        throw new Error(`Product ${item.itemId} no longer exists`);
      }
    }
  }
  next();
});
```

### How to verify the invariant

Any operation on a Schema that modifies an Inventory Item, must have a pre-save and pre-update hook to verify the existence and validity of those InventoryItems. If they do not exist, then flag this operation and prompt the user to add the missing hooks.

Commit message:

more updates from the demo

src/services/INVARIANTS.md, after:

### CART-001: Cart Items Must Validate Product Existence

**Definition:**
Before adding or updating a cart item, the system must validate that the referenced product exists in the InventoryItem collection in sufficient quantities. 


**When to Apply:**
- ✅ Any method that creates, updates, or deletes an Inventory item
- ✅ Cart save operations - validate all items before persisting
- ✅ Cart update operations - validate all items before persisting

**Rationale:**
Ensure the Inventory Item collection is in a consistent state with non-negative quantities. 

---

## After: With Validation (30 seconds)


### Pre-Save Hook (Defensive Layer)

**New or Updated:** `src/models/ShoppingCart.ts` (or wherever cart schema lives)

```typescript
// ✅ DATABASE-LEVEL VALIDATION

const cartSchema = new Schema({
  userId: String,
  items: [{
    itemId: String,
    quantity: Number,
    name: String,
    price: Number
  }]
});

// Validate on save
cartSchema.pre('save', async function(next) {
  // ✅ Validate all items reference existing products
  for (const item of this.items || []) {
    const exists = await InventoryItemModel.exists({ id: item.itemId });
    if (!exists) {
      throw new Error(`Product ${item.itemId} was deleted`);
    }
  }
  next();
});

// Validate on update
cartSchema.pre('updateOne', async function(next) {
  // ✅ Validate all items on update too
  const data = this.getUpdate();
  if (data.$set?.items) {
    for (const item of data.$set.items) {
      const exists = await InventoryItemModel.exists({ id: item.itemId });
      if (!exists) {
        throw new Error(`Product ${item.itemId} no longer exists`);
      }
    }
  }
  next();
});
```

### How to verify the invariant

Any operation on a Schema that modifies an Inventory Item, must have a pre-save and pre-update hook to verify the existence and validity of those InventoryItems. If they do not exist, then flag this operation and prompt the user to add the missing hooks.
